#### ESL Podcast 909 - Buying Electronic Books

**e-book reader** - a small electronic device that can be held in one's hands and
that displays the content of books electronically on a screen

> How can I clean the fingerprints off of this e-book reader so that the text is
easier to see?

**to download** - to transfer information from the Internet to a computer or a
memory stick

> Does your bank let you download account statements from 10 years ago?

**old school** - old-fashioned, preferring older technology over new technology,
liking the way things were done a long time ago

> Alberto has very old school manners, but they're charming.

**printed** - with text or images displayed on a physical piece of paper, not
electronically

> Should we buy printed business cards, even though all our contact information
is at the bottom of our email messages?

**to store** - to keep something for future use, not deleting it or throwing it away

> The weather is getting warmer, so it's time to store our winter clothes and boots
in the basement.

**digital** - electronic and stored on a computer or memory stick, not physically
printed

> We have thousands of digital photos, but we hardly ever look at them. We
should print out the best ones and put them in a photo album.

**portable** - easily moved from one to another, not too big or heavy

> Modern smart phones are more like portable computers than simple
telephones.

**incompatible format** - for the way a computer file is encoded (stored) to not be
able to work together on two devices or technologies

> We can't open these files because they're in an incompatible format with this
computer.

**to edge out** - to compete against someone and win; to push someone else out
of a competition or out of a leading position

> Patents help inventors edge out people who want to copy their great ideas.

**the dust settles** - a description of the point in time when things calm down and
a situation becomes more stable, no longer changing very quickly

> Clara is really upset with her boyfriend right now, but I think she'll forgive him
once the dust settles.

**to convert** - to transform something from one type to another

> Could you please convert this photograph from color to black-and-white?

**text** - written words

> The text in the manual was confused and difficult to understand.

**faded** - with faint colors that are not as bright as they once were and that are
more difficult to see, usually because they have been exposed to bright sunlight
for a long period of time

> How do museums prevent important artwork from becoming faded?

**yellowed** - having changed in color from white to a slightly yellow color, usually
as a result of aging or exposure to cigarette smoke

> Karina's teeth are yellowed, probably because she drinks so much coffee.

**text size** - the size of letters on a screen or on a piece of paper, especially when
generated by a computer

> How can you read such a tiny text size without a magnifying glass?

**font** - the style of letters generated by a computer, such as Times New Roman,
Arial, and Courier

> A font like Comic Sans looks playful, but it is more difficult to read than
traditional fonts like Times New Roman.

**line spacing** - the distance between each line of text in a document

> Editors prefer for manuscripts to have a lot of line spacing so that they have
room to write down their comments and edits.

**out-of-print** - no longer being produced or sold by a publisher, making it more
difficult to find a copy of something

> There's a used bookstore downtown that specializes in finding copies of out-of-
print books.

**low-tech** - with simple, unsophisticated technology; not new or cutting-edge

> Why would I want a robot to clean my floors when I could just use a low-tech
broom?

